DOC: Explain how to create new MRML type (#6151)
Slicer/Slicer: Docs/developer_guide/mrml_overview.md

### Creating Custom MRML Node Classes

> There are a number of different MRML nodes and helper classes that need to be implemented for a single new MRML data type to work. Here is the not-so-short list. We will go over each of these in detail. Note that all of these can be implemented an extension and must be implemented in C++.

Reviewer: Here might also be a good point to add that creating MRML nodes is an advanced topic, and developers shouldn't assume that this is the starting point for development.  Many powerful extensions are written in pure Python or C++ and simply use and combine existing node types.  In other cases deriving from existing classes and adding just a few methods may be enough to give the desired functionality.

> There are a number of different MRML nodes and helper classes that need to be implemented for a single new MRML data type to work. Here is the not-so-short list. We will go over each of these in detail. Note that all of these can be implemented an extension and must be implemented in C++.

Author: Softened statement. Added new first paragraph saying that adding new MRML nodes is often not necessary. This "Creating Custom MRML Node Classes" section is already under the "Advanced topics" section, so hopefully that helps with developers not seeing this as the starting point for all 3D Slicer development.

> There are a number of different MRML nodes and helper classes that need to be implemented for a single new MRML data type to work. Here is the not-so-short list. We will go over each of these in detail. Note that all of these can be implemented an extension and must be implemented in C++.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are a number of different MRML nodes and helper classes that can be implemented to enable new MRML data type functionality. Here is the not-so-short list. We will go over each of these in detail.

:::{note}

MRML nodes are implemented in C++.

MRML nodes can be implemented in a Slicer extension.
:::
```

> There are a number of different MRML nodes and helper classes that need to be implemented for a single new MRML data type to work. Here is the not-so-short list. We will go over each of these in detail. Note that all of these can be implemented an extension and must be implemented in C++.

Author: Updated to use note blocks here and in other places.

* Override `vtkMRMLStorageNode* CreateDefaultStorageNode()` to return an owning pointer default storage node type for your class (see “The storage node”).
* Override `void CreateDefaultDisplayNodes()` to create the default display nodes (for 3D and/or 2D viewing).
* Override `void ProcessMRMLEvents(vtkObject * caller, unsigned long event, void* callData)`:
  * This is used to process any events that happen regarding this object.
  * This method should handle the `vtkMRMLTransformableNode::TransformModifiedEvent` which is emitted any time the transform that is associated with the data object is changed.
* Convenience methods - while not necessarily needed, they are nice to have.
  * `Get<MyCustomType>DisplayNode()` function that returns the downcast version of `GetDisplayNode()` saves users of your class a bit of downcasting.
* Other methods:
  * Add other methods as your heart desires to view/modify the actual content of the data being stored.

>   * Pro tip: Any methods with signatures that contain only primitives, raw pointers to VTK derived objects, or a few std library items like `std::vector` will be automatically wrapped for use in Python. Any functions signatures that contain other classes (custom classes, smart pointers from the std library, etc) will not be wrapped.

Author: Added suggestion

#### The display node

The display node, contrary to what one may think, is not actually how a MRML object is displayed on screen. Instead it is the list of options for displaying a MRML object. Things like colors, visibility, opacity; all of these can be found in the display node.

Files:

* \<Extension>/\<Module>/MRML/vtkMRML\<MyCustomType>DisplayNode.h
* \<Extension>/\<Module>/MRML/vtkMRML\<MyCustomType>DisplayNode.cxx

Key Points:

* Naming convention for class: `vtkMRML<MyCustomType>DisplayNode`
  * E.g. `vtkMRMLModelDisplayNode`
* Inherits from `vtkMRMLDisplayNode`.
* Constructing a new node is same as the data node.
* To save to an MRB is same as for the data node:
  * Note: some MRML types like Markups store display information when the actual data is being stored via the writer/storage node. If you do that, no action is needed in this class.
* Convenience methods:
  * `Get<YourDataType>Node()` function that returns a downcasted version of `vtkMRMLDisplayableNode* GetDisplayableNode()`.
* Other methods:
  * Add any methods regarding coloring/sizing/displaying your data node.

#### The widget

> The widget is half actually putting a usable object in the 2D or 3D viewer. It is in charge of making the widget representation and interacting with it.

Author: Updated documentation.

* See the reader for information on defining and constructing Qt style classes.
* Override `double canAddNodeToSubjectHierarchy(vtkMRMLNode* node, vtkIdType parentItemID=vtkMRMLSubjectHierarchyNode::INVALID_ITEM_ID) const`.
  * This method is used to determine if a data node can be placed in the hierarchy using this plugin.
* Override `double canOwnSubjectHierarchyItem(vtkIdType itemID) const` to say if this plugin can own a particular subject hierarchy item.
* Override `const QString roleForPlugin() const` to give the plugin’s role (most often meaning the data type the plugin can handle, e.g. Markup).
* Override `QIcon icon(vtkIdType itemID)` and `QIcon visibilityIcon(int visible)` to set icons for your node type.
* Override `QString tooltip(vtkIdType itemID) const` to set a tool tip for your node type.
* Override the following to determine what happens when a user gets/sets the node color through the subject hierarchy:
  * `void setDisplayColor(vtkIdType itemID, QColor color, QMap<int, QVariant> terminologyMetaData)`
  * `QColor getDisplayColor(vtkIdType itemID, QMap<int, QVariant> &terminologyMetaData) const`

#### The module (aka putting it all together)

> If you have used 3DSlicer for any length of time, you have probably noticed that for each type of node (or set of types as in something like markups) there is a dedicated module that is used solely for interacting with the single node type (or set of types). Examples would be the Models, Volumes, and Markups modules. These modules are useful from a user perspective and also necessary to get your new node registered everywhere it needs to be.

Reviewer: We try to always use "3D Slicer" not "3DSlicer"

Author: Update to use "3D Slicer"

### Creating Custom MRML Node Classes

> If you are adding new functionality to 3D Slicer either via extensions, or even updates to the core, most of the time the existing MRML nodes will be sufficient. Many powerful C++ and Python extensions simply use and combine existing the node types to create new functionality. Other extensions derive from existing classes and add just a few methods to get the functionality they need, instead of creating new MRML types from scratch. If the existing MRML nodes don't offer enough (or almost enough) functionality to enable what you want to do, it is possible to create your own MRML nodes with a little bit of effort.

Author: Updated to similar wording as proposed.

There are a number of different MRML nodes and helper classes that can be implemented to enable new MRML data type functionality. Here is the not-so-short list. We will go over each of these in detail. 

1. [Data node](#the-data-node)
2. [Display node](#the-display-node)
3. [Widget](#the-widget)
4. [Widget Representation](#the-widget-representation)
5. [Displayable Manager](#the-displayable-manager)
6. [Storage node](#the-storage-node)
7. [Reader](#the-reader)
8. [Writer](#the-writer)
9. [Subject Hierarchy Plugin](#the-subject-hierarchy-plugin)
10. [Module](#the-module-aka-putting-it-all-together)

> While technically not all of these need to be implemented for a new MRML type to be used and useful, implementing all of them will yield the best results. The resulting MRML type will “be like the Model”.

Author: I didn't catch that during the conversion from the google doc this was initially in to the markdown. Fixed.

> While technically not all of these need to be implemented for a new MRML type to be used and useful, implementing all of them will yield the best results. The resulting MRML type will “be like the Model”.

Author: Also updated to add maintenance statement.

> 
> For the filenames and classes, replace \<MyCustomType> with the name of your type.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: Updated to move under Convention heading.

:::{note}

MRML nodes are implemented in C++.

MRML nodes can be implemented in a Slicer extension.
:::

:::{note}

> All links to classes/functions are to the current head of Slicer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All links to API classes & functions documentation redirecting to `https://apidocs.slicer.org` correspond to documentation generated from the latest commit of the `master` branch of Slicer. This means that version of this documentation associated with older version of Slicer may not be out of sync. 
```

Author: Updated to similar wording as proposed.

:::

> 

Reviewer 2: ```
### Convention

For the filenames and classes referenced in this document, replace `<MyCustomType>` with the name of your type.
```

Author: Updated.

#### The data node

> The data node is where the essence of the new MRML type will live. It is where the actual data resides. Notably absent from the data node is any description of how the data should be displayed or stored on disk (with the exception of MRB files).

Reviewer 2: > with the exception of MRB files

I suggest moving the exception further down after the key points.

Author: Removed explicit exception statement.

Files:

* \<Extension>/\<Module>/MRML/vtkMRML\<MyCustomType>Node.h

> * \<Extension>/\<Module>/MRML/vtkMRML\<MyCustomType>Node.cxx

Reviewer 2: Was initially thinking about using 

```
* `<Extension>/<Module>/MRML/vtkMRML<MyCustomType>Node.h`
* `<Extension>/<Module>/MRML/vtkMRML<MyCustomType>Node.cxx`
```

but formatting it like this may be best:

```
|-- <Extension>
       |-- <Module>
              |-- MRML
                    |-- vtkMRML<MyCustomType>Node.h
                    |-- vtkMRML<MyCustomType>Node.cxx
```

Author: Updated to suggested file structure formatting.

Key points:

* Naming convention for class: `vtkMRML<MyCustomType>Node`

>   * E.g. [`vtkMRMLModelNode`](http://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classvtkMRMLModelNode.html)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * E.g. [`vtkMRMLModelNode`](https://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classvtkMRMLModelNode.html)
```

Consider updating all documentation links in this PR to `https://`

Author: Updated all links in this section to https

* Other methods:
  * Add other methods as your heart desires to view/modify the actual content of the data being stored.

:::{tip}

Any methods with signatures that contain only primitives, raw pointers to VTK derived objects, or a few std library items like `std::vector` will be automatically wrapped for use in Python. Any functions signatures that contain other classes (custom classes, smart pointers from the std library, etc) will not be wrapped. For best results, try to use existing VTK data objects, or have your custom classes derive from [`vtkObject`](https://vtk.org/doc/nightly/html/classvtkObject.html) to get automatic wrapping.

:::

#### The display node

The display node, contrary to what one may think, is not actually how a MRML object is displayed on screen. Instead it is the list of options for displaying a MRML object. Things like colors, visibility, opacity; all of these can be found in the display node.

Files:

* \<Extension>/\<Module>/MRML/vtkMRML\<MyCustomType>DisplayNode.h

> * \<Extension>/\<Module>/MRML/vtkMRML\<MyCustomType>DisplayNode.cxx

Reviewer 2: ```
|-- <Extension>
       |-- <Module>
              |-- MRML
                    |-- vtkMRML<MyCustomType>DisplayNode.h
                    |-- vtkMRML<MyCustomType>DisplayNode.cxx
```

Author: Updated to suggested file structure formatting.

* Constructing a new node is same as the [data node](#the-data-node).
* To save to an MRB is same as for the [data node](#the-data-node):
  * Some MRML types like Markups store display information when the actual data is being stored via the writer/storage node. If you do that, no action is needed in this class.
* Convenience methods:
  * `Get<YourDataType>Node()` function that returns a downcasted version of [`vtkMRMLDisplayableNode* GetDisplayableNode()`](http://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classvtkMRMLDisplayNode.html#a7100d9379c0b96b2a9ab1ad0a8514af7).
* Other methods:
  * Add any methods regarding coloring/sizing/displaying your data node.

#### The widget

The widget is interaction half of actually putting a usable object in the 2D or 3D viewer. It is in charge of making the widget representation and interacting with it.

:::{note}

If your MRML node is display only without any interaction from the viewers, the widget is not necessary, just the [widget representation](#the-widget-representation) for displaying.

:::

Files:

* \<Extension>/\<Module>/VTKWidgets/vtkSlicer\<MyCustomType>Widget.h

> * \<Extension>/\<Module>/VTKWidgets/vtkSlicer\<MyCustomType>Widget.cxx

Reviewer 2: ```
|-- <Extension>
       |-- <Module>
              |-- VTKWidgets
                    |-- vtkSlicer<MyCustomType>Widget.h
                    |-- vtkSlicer<MyCustomType>Widget.cxx
```

Author: Updated to suggested file structure formatting.

  * [`bool CanProcessInteractionEvent(vtkMRMLInteractionEventData* eventData, double &distance2)`](http://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classvtkMRMLAbstractWidget.html#a18d9e1148c3d53ea6244c69265e6176a)
  * [`bool ProcessInteractionEvent(vtkMRMLInteractionEventData* eventData)`](http://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classvtkMRMLAbstractWidget.html#ab8d51be6df9402eb96943e0e2d0b3123)
  * [`void Leave(vtkMRMLInteractionEventData* eventData)`](http://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classvtkMRMLAbstractWidget.html#a6428fe2d100bd1f38c306d3af74802a5)
  * [`bool GetInteractive()`](http://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classvtkMRMLAbstractWidget.html#aaca79315fd1e7dce0f09e82c0b1c5e6e)
  * [`int GetMouseCursor()`](http://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classvtkMRMLAbstractWidget.html#a8a6e0f8a3b81636e58f60cebbbd6f4d7)

#### The widget representation

The widget representation is the visualization half of displaying a node on screen. This is where any data structures describing your type are turned into [`vtkActor`](https://vtk.org/doc/nightly/html/classvtkActor.html)s that can be displayed in a VTK render window.

Files:

* \<Extension>/\<Module>/VTKWidgets/vtkSlicer\<MyCustomType>WidgetRepresentation.h

> * \<Extension>/\<Module>/VTKWidgets/vtkSlicer\<MyCustomType>WidgetRepresentation.cxx

Author: Updated to suggested file structure formatting.

  * [`int RenderTranslucentPolygonalGeometry(vtkViewport* viewport)`](http://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classvtkMRMLAbstractWidgetRepresentation.html#a0d00da2fcb99df807c6884ac757e1735)
  * [`vtkTypeBool HasTranslucentPolygonalGeometry()`](http://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classvtkMRMLAbstractWidgetRepresentation.html#a16347752784cec5542751b9e6d81cf2b)

:::{important}

The points/lines/etc pulled from the data node should be post-transform, if there are any transforms applied.

:::

:::{tip}

Minimize the number of actors used for better rendering performance.

:::

#### The displayable manager

The data node, display node, widget, and widget representation are all needed pieces for data actually showing up on the screen. The displayable manager is the glue that brings all the pieces together. It monitors the MRML scene, and when data and display nodes are added or removed, it creates or destroys the corresponding widgets and widget representations.

Files:

* \<Extension>/\<Module>/MRMLDM/vtkMRML\<MyCustomType>DisplayableManager.h

> * \<Extension>/\<Module>/MRMLDM/vtkMRML\<MyCustomType>DisplayableManager.cxx

Reviewer 2: ```
|-- <Extension>
       |-- <Module>
              |-- MRMLDM
                    |-- vtkMRML<MyCustomType>DisplayableManager.h
                    |-- vtkMRML<MyCustomType>DisplayableManager.cxx
```

Author: Updated to suggested file structure formatting.

* Override [`void UpdateFromMRML()`](http://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classvtkMRMLAbstractDisplayableManager.html#a0e691194d46e40d73e598ba318324388) and [`void UpdateFromMRMLScene()`](http://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classvtkMRMLAbstractLogic.html#a50caeb3a373ccd53635ae2c08bc2e63e) to bring the displayable manager in line with the MRML Scene.

#### The storage node

A storage node is responsible for reading and writing data nodes to files. A single data node type can have multiple storage node types associated with it for reading/writing different formats. A storage node will be created for both normal save/load operations for a single data node, as well as when you are saving a whole scene to an MRB.

It is common for a data node’s storage node to also write relevant values out of the display node (colors, opacity, etc) at the same time it writes the data.

:::{note}

The storage node is not sufficient in itself to allow the new data node to be saved/loaded from the normal 3D Slicer save/load facilities; the [reader](#the-reader) and [writer](#the-writer) will help with that.

:::

Files:

* \<Extension>/\<Module>/MRML/vtkMRML\<MyCustomType>StorageNode.h

> * \<Extension>/\<Module>/MRML/vtkMRML\<MyCustomType>StorageNode.cxx

Reviewer 2: ```
|-- <Extension>
       |-- <Module>
              |-- MRML
                    |-- vtkMRML<MyCustomType>StorageNode.h
                    |-- vtkMRML<MyCustomType>StorageNode.cxx
```

Author: Updated to suggested file structure formatting.

* If your data node uses any coordinates (most nodes that get displayed should) it is recommended to be specific in your storage format whether the saved coordinates are RAS or LPS coordinates.
  * Having a way to allow the user to specify this is even better.
* Other methods
  * Adding a `vtkMRML<MyCustomType>Node* Create<MyCustomType>Node(const char* nodeName)` function will be convenient for implementing the writer and is also convenient for users of the storage node.

:::{tip}

If your storage node reads/writes JSON, [RapidJSON](https://rapidjson.org/index.html) is already in the superbuild and is the recommended JSON parser.

It is recommended to have your extension be `.<something>.json` where the `<something>` is related to your node type (e.g. `.mrk.json` for Markups).

:::

#### The reader

The recommended way to read a file into a MRML node is through the storage node. The reader, on the other hand, exists to interface with the loading facilities of 3D Slicer (drag and drop, as well as the button to load data into the scene). As such, the reader uses the storage node in its implementation.

Files:

* \<Extension>/\<Module>/qSlicer\<MyCustomType>Reader.h

> * \<Extension>/\<Module>/qSlicer\<MyCustomType>Reader.cxx

Reviewer 2: ```
|-- <Extension>
       |-- <Module>
              |-- qSlicer<MyCustomType>Reader.h
              |-- qSlicer<MyCustomType>Reader.cxx
```

Author: Updated to suggested file structure formatting.

* Override [`QStringList extensions() const`](http://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classqSlicerFileReader.html#afb3187915977b2253d86634cc465b23d) to provide the extensions that can be read.
  * Should be the same as the storage node since the reader uses the storage node.
* Override [`bool load(const IOProperties& properties)`](http://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classqSlicerFileReader.html#ac9acb878cd8adcc426e9a7a9edac15df). This is the function that actually loads the node from the file into the scene.

:::{important}

The reader is not a VTK object, like the previous objects discussed. It is actually a QObject, so we follow Qt guidelines. One such guideline is the [D-Pointer pattern](https://wiki.qt.io/D-Pointer), which is recommended for use.

:::

#### The writer

The writer is the companion to the reader, so, similar to the reader, it does not implement the actual writing of files, but rather it uses the storage node. Its existence is necessary to use 3D Slicer’s built in saving facilities, such as the save button.

Files:

* \<Extension>/\<Module>/qSlicer\<MyCustomType>Writer.h

> * \<Extension>/\<Module>/qSlicer\<MyCustomType>Writer.cxx

Reviewer 2: ```
|-- <Extension>
       |-- <Module>
              |-- qSlicer<MyCustomType>Writer.h
              |-- qSlicer<MyCustomType>Writer.cxx
```

Author: Updated to suggested file structure formatting.

* Override [`QStringList extensions(vtkObject* object) const`](http://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classqSlicerNodeWriter.html#aa2d7322c22d3d5fa7b9ef2843948b31a) to provide file extensions that can be written to.
  * File extensions may be different, but don’t have to be, for different data nodes that in the same hierarchy (e.g. Markups Curve and Plane could reasonably require different file extensions, but they don’t).
* Override [`bool write(const qSlicerIO::IOProperties& properties)`](http://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classqSlicerNodeWriter.html#aa7e3af9bf485b46735131e6363223ad8) to do the actual writing (by way of a storage node, of course).

#### The subject hierarchy plugin

A convenient module in 3D Slicer is the Data module. It brings all the different data types together under one roof and offers operations such as cloning, deleting, and renaming nodes that work regardless of the node type. The Data module uses the Subject Hierarchy, which is what we need to plug into so our new node type can be seen in and modified by the Data module.

Files:

* \<Extension>/\<Module>/SubjectHierarchyPlugins/qSlicerSubjectHierarchy\<MyCustomType>Plugin.h

> * \<Extension>/\<Module>/SubjectHierarchyPlugins/qSlicerSubjectHierarchy\<MyCustomType>Plugin.cxx

Reviewer 2: ```
|-- <Extension>
       |-- <Module>
              |-- SubjectHierarchyPlugins
                    |-- qSlicerSubjectHierarchy<MyCustomType>Plugin.h
                    |-- qSlicerSubjectHierarchy<MyCustomType>Plugin.cxx
```

Author: Updated to suggested file structure formatting.

#### The module (aka putting it all together)

If you have used 3D Slicer for any length of time, you have probably noticed that for each type of node (or set of types as in something like markups) there is a dedicated module that is used solely for interacting with the single node type (or set of types). Examples would be the Models, Volumes, and Markups modules. These modules are useful from a user perspective and also necessary to get your new node registered everywhere it needs to be.

As these are normal 3D Slicer modules, they come in three main parts, the module, the logic, and the module widget. The recommended way to create a new module is through the [Extension Wizard](https://www.slicer.org/wiki/Documentation/Nightly/Developers/ExtensionWizard).

Files:

* \<Extension>/\<Module>/qSlicer\<MyCustomType>Module.h
* \<Extension>/\<Module>/qSlicer\<MyCustomType>Module.cxx
* \<Extension>/\<Module>/qSlicer\<MyCustomType>ModuleWidget.h
* \<Extension>/\<Module>/qSlicer\<MyCustomType>ModuleWidget.cxx
* \<Extension>/\<Module>/Logic/vtkSlicer\<MyCustomType>Logic.h

> * \<Extension>/\<Module>/Logic/vtkSlicer\<MyCustomType>Logic.cxx

Author: Updated to suggested file structure formatting.

> In qSlicer\<MyCustomType>Module.cxx:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In `qSlicer<MyCustomType>Module.cxx`:
```

Author: Updated.

* Override the [`void setup()`](http://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classqSlicerAbstractCoreModule.html#a9ad37e756338e7226f157b4eb54b9bcd) function:
  * Register your displayable manager with the [`vtkMRMLThreeDViewDisplayableManagerFactory`](http://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classvtkMRMLThreeDViewDisplayableManagerFactory.html) and/or the [`vtkMRMLSliceViewDisplayableManagerFactory`](http://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classvtkMRMLSliceViewDisplayableManagerFactory.html).
  * Register your subject hierarchy plugin with the [`qSlicerSubjectHierarchyPluginHandler`](http://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classqSlicerSubjectHierarchyPluginHandler.html).
  * Register your reader and writer with the [`qSlicerIOManager`](http://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classqSlicerIOManager.html).
* Override the [`QStringList associatedNodeTypes() const`](http://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classqSlicerAbstractCoreModule.html#a51d7c31d4901b3a313cb53b4891961f9) function and return all the new MRML classes created (data, display, and storage nodes).

> In vtkSlicer\<MyCustomType>Logic.cxx:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In `vtkSlicer<MyCustomType>Logic.cxx`:
```

Author: Updated.

* Override the protected [`void RegisterNodes()`](http://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classvtkMRMLAbstractLogic.html#acfa7f65f53d5fbe6d056e7cf32a23058) function and register all the new MRML classes created (data, display, and storage nodes) with the MRML scene.

> In qSlicer\<MyCustomType>ModuleWidget.cxx:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In `qSlicer<MyCustomType>ModuleWidget.cxx`:
```

Author: Updated.

  * Override [`void ReadXMLAttributes(const char** atts)`](https://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classvtkMRMLNode.html#a7ab4e8e10cadd4486acb626763d0a891) and [`void WriteXML(ostream& of, int indent)`](https://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classvtkMRMLNode.html#aaff972a037da725aaa318bf4b8a6f9a8) to save to XML any attributes of the data node that will not be saved by the writer.
* To work with Transforms:
  * Override [`bool CanApplyNonLinearTransforms() const`](https://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classvtkMRMLTransformableNode.html#a7a7dda29c7ba59e55dcbaeb0f06c7f6b) to return true or false depending on if non linear transforms can be applied to your data type.
  * Override [`void OnTransformNodeReferenceChanged(vtkMRMLTransformNode* transformNode)`](https://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classvtkMRMLTransformableNode.html#aaf5e6afd30216db5aafeb7e1141e9eee). It will be called when a new transform is applied to your data node.
  * Override [`void ApplyTransform(vtkAbstractTransform* transform)`](https://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classvtkMRMLTransformableNode.html#add3fb3ed7b65c0f2de92f535f013869b), which will be called when a transform is hardened.
  * See bullet on `ProcessMRMLEvents`.

> * Override [`void GetRASBounds(double bounds[6])`](https://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classvtkMRMLDisplayableNode.html#aa7fbcfe229f9249e1701bef2bbf7d64b) and [`void GetBounds(double bounds[6])`](https://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classvtkMRMLDisplayableNode.html#a0976f1f4f57c701f3301391e9b95e6f9) to allow the “Center the 3D view on scene” button in the 3D viewer to work. Note that the difference between these functions is that `GetRASBounds` returns the bounds after all transforms have been applied, while `GetBounds` returns the pre-transform bounds.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Override [`void GetRASBounds(double bounds[6])`](https://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classvtkMRMLDisplayableNode.html#aa7fbcfe229f9249e1701bef2bbf7d64b) and [`void GetBounds(double bounds[6])`](https://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classvtkMRMLDisplayableNode.html#a0976f1f4f57c701f3301391e9b95e6f9) to allow the "Center the 3D view on scene" button in the 3D viewer to work. Note that the difference between these functions is that `GetRASBounds` returns the bounds after all transforms have been applied, while `GetBounds` returns the pre-transform bounds.
```

  * Register your subject hierarchy plugin with the [`qSlicerSubjectHierarchyPluginHandler`](https://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classqSlicerSubjectHierarchyPluginHandler.html).
  * Register your reader and writer with the [`qSlicerIOManager`](https://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classqSlicerIOManager.html).
* Override the [`QStringList associatedNodeTypes() const`](https://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classqSlicerAbstractCoreModule.html#a51d7c31d4901b3a313cb53b4891961f9) function and return all the new MRML classes created (data, display, and storage nodes).

In `vtkSlicer<MyCustomType>Logic.cxx`:

* Override the protected [`void RegisterNodes()`](https://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classvtkMRMLAbstractLogic.html#acfa7f65f53d5fbe6d056e7cf32a23058) function and register all the new MRML classes created (data, display, and storage nodes) with the MRML scene.

In `qSlicer<MyCustomType>ModuleWidget.cxx`:

> * Override [`bool setEditedNode(vtkMRMLNode* node, QString role = QString(), QString context = QString())`](https://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classqSlicerAbstractModuleWidget.html#a52fe94bcc034b4d841d7fc05a4899d3c) and [`double nodeEditable(vtkMRMLNode* node)`](https://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classqSlicerAbstractModuleWidget.html#adebae2ce9686043d7f9dee09620b28bb) if you want this module to be connected to the Data module’s “Edit properties…” option in the right click menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Override [`bool setEditedNode(vtkMRMLNode* node, QString role = QString(), QString context = QString())`](https://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classqSlicerAbstractModuleWidget.html#a52fe94bcc034b4d841d7fc05a4899d3c) and [`double nodeEditable(vtkMRMLNode* node)`](https://apidocs.slicer.org/master/classqSlicerAbstractModuleWidget.html#adebae2ce9686043d7f9dee09620b28bb) if you want this module to be connected to the Data module’s "Edit properties..." option in the right click menu.
```
